skills/workos-widgets-framework-vite/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: workos-widgets-framework-vite
description: Vite adapter for WorkOS Widgets. Creates a page/component and wires routing if needed.
---

# WorkOS Widgets Adapter: Vite

## Goals

- Create a page at the provided path.
- Acquire a widgets access token and pass it to the widget component.
- Invoke the widget skill specified in the installer prompt to generate the widget component.
- Both the page and the component must be created.
- Verify the page file exists and is wired into routing (import + usage).

## Instructions

1) Detect the routing solution (React Router or custom).
2) If there is a router config, add the page route.
3) If no router exists, add a new route component and render it from the main app component.
4) Prefer AuthKit client access tokens when available; otherwise use server token if app uses backend SDKs.
5) Call the widget skill specified in the prompt to generate the component and import it into the page.

## Access Token Scope

Use the widget-specific scope guidance from the installer prompt and selected API methods.

Commit message:

Refine instructions not to use type assertions

skills/workos-widgets-framework-vite/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: workos-widgets-framework-vite
description: Vite adapter for WorkOS Widgets. Creates a page/component and wires routing if needed.
---

# WorkOS Widgets Adapter: Vite

## Goals

- Create a page at the provided path.
- Acquire a widgets access token and pass it to the widget component.
- Invoke the widget skill specified in the installer prompt to generate the widget component.
- Both the page and the component must be created.
- Verify the page file exists and is wired into routing (import + usage).

## Instructions

1) Detect the routing solution (React Router or custom).
2) If there is a router config, add the page route.
3) If no router exists, add a new route component and render it from the main app component.
4) Prefer AuthKit client access tokens when available; otherwise use server token if app uses backend SDKs.
5) Call the widget skill specified in the prompt to generate the component and import it into the page.
6) Do not add payload assertions/type casts for API responses in generated page code; rely on typed helper responses.

## Access Token Scope

Use the widget-specific scope guidance from the installer prompt and selected API methods.
