skills/workos-widgets-framework-tanstack-start/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: workos-widgets-framework-tanstack-start
description: TanStack Start adapter for WorkOS Widgets. Creates a route, fetches token, and invokes widget skill.
---

# WorkOS Widgets Adapter: TanStack Start

## Goals

- Create a route at the provided path.
- Acquire a widgets access token and pass it to the widget component.
- Invoke the widget skill specified in the installer prompt to generate the widget component.
- Both the page and the component must be created.
- Verify the page/route file exists and is wired into routing (import + usage).

## Instructions

1) Follow TanStack Start route/file conventions.
2) Prefer server loaders for token retrieval when present.
3) If AuthKit client access token is used, fetch token in the client component and pass it down.
4) Register the route if required by the app’s router setup.
5) Call the widget skill specified in the prompt to generate the component and import it into the route.

## Access Token Scope

Use the widget-specific scope guidance from the installer prompt and selected API methods.

Commit message:

Refine instructions not to use type assertions

skills/workos-widgets-framework-tanstack-start/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: workos-widgets-framework-tanstack-start
description: TanStack Start adapter for WorkOS Widgets. Creates a route, fetches token, and invokes widget skill.
---

# WorkOS Widgets Adapter: TanStack Start

## Goals

- Create a route at the provided path.
- Acquire a widgets access token and pass it to the widget component.
- Invoke the widget skill specified in the installer prompt to generate the widget component.
- Both the page and the component must be created.
- Verify the page/route file exists and is wired into routing (import + usage).

## Instructions

1) Follow TanStack Start route/file conventions.
2) Prefer server loaders for token retrieval when present.
3) If AuthKit client access token is used, fetch token in the client component and pass it down.
4) Register the route if required by the app’s router setup.
5) Call the widget skill specified in the prompt to generate the component and import it into the route.
6) Do not add payload assertions/type casts for API responses in generated route code; rely on typed helper responses.

## Access Token Scope

Use the widget-specific scope guidance from the installer prompt and selected API methods.
